Down Bills Road opposite, you know, Dufferin Farm on the sort of long straight,
across the river from there, I don't recall it, but I think it's demolished and fell into ruin.
Woodlands, it's a ruin now, isn't it?
Well, no, I think all the stone was taken to build other things.
I remember seeing it on Facebook and Jimmy Thomas had made a comment about he remembered it.
He could walk down past the Thoughall Farm, down the river, and he'd come to it there.
It's sort of what was listed in it.
But he remembers it as a ruin.
The stone gradually disappeared as people just went and helped themselves.
I remember reading in one of the old archives.
It's something that came off the computer anyway.
About Woodlands, and one of the vikars lived there.
One of the former vikars of Kandida Church, I think.
I don't know whether it was used as a vicarage.
This wouldn't be far from Kandida because you'd walk up that side of the river
and you wouldn't be far from the church, actually.
It's probably within half a mile to the church, perhaps.
Would that be used as a vicarage, do you think?
It looks as though it would be.
It looks a bit that way, doesn't it?
It's a lovely looking house. It's got some really big chimneys on it.
Amazing chimneys, aren't they?
Yes.
Have you ever heard of that Woodlands?
I've never known it as a charter. It's sort of gone by then, I think.
No, I don't remember it, I don't think.
I've seen that as well.
The Fleece Temperance Hotel.
I remember it as the electricity board shop.
That's the archway there to the T-Morgans.
So we're going down South Street.
That's it, yeah. It looks so wide, doesn't it, here?
The Fleece. It looks so narrow now.
It's where the Fleece was.
Yes, and it's the shop window now, the big shop window.
It was the electricity board place, I don't remember it as a kid.
And this is just the house. And then Lees Hubbard is there on the end.
Well, that's where you started off Married Life, didn't you?
It was, yeah.
So which is this house then with all the ivy on?
Well, I just can't remember the name right now.
Look at those lovely lamps as well. They're amazing.
Nice and little gas lit.
But the street looks wide. I can't see the side of it, but it just looks like a...
Wide street, isn't it? Not wide now, is it?
It's a very small pavement, of course, yeah.
But the way they're dressed.
Yeah, all the kids, don't they?
But there are quite a few Temperance Hotels in Raider, because the Kimberley was one.
That's where you lived, wasn't it? Which is now Walton's, the...
That's it, yeah. It used to be the Kimberley Temperance Hotel.
Yeah.
I just remember going down there, there was nine bedrooms there.
And it used to be freezing cold up there.
Freezing cold? Maybe that's why they called it the Temperance Hotel.
But it was only... they were like coal fired.
Even when you had heating and coal, it just sort of...
But there were a lot of Temperance Hotels. There was one next to the old Swan.
There was one in West Street there.
My mother used to say they were catered for a lot of people coming into town.
Farmers and the like would come into town for affairs.
They would come by foot and they would stay the night before going back.
So would that be where...
So there was a lot of trade for small places like this.
Would that be where the health food shop is now then?
It's next to the Swan.
Yeah, that's right, yes, yes.
So what was the name of that one, I wonder?
Well, I don't know. I know the name of that one.
There are old photographs of it.
There's an engraving of it with a big sloping roof on it.
I've seen pictures of it.
Right. You don't really associate Raider with the Temperance Hotels.
Well, you don't really. No, actually no.
It's quite a contradiction to the image you've got with the old pubs.
They were... I don't know, maybe 26, 30 pubs.
Amazing, yes.
Yes, that's right.
They've got their Williams.
So where was that? What street was that?
Well, that's the B.I. that is.
Ah, right, right.
That's a nice old photo.
On the right-hand side, is he going down to his things?
Those were the days when he'd have a watchmaker.
There was lots of people...
Necessary trade.
Yeah, everybody had a clock and they were sort of...
There was a trade in maintenance of those, I guess.
Just look at the roof and those little door and windows.
I mean, they've all at least gone, haven't they?
They have, yes.
Look at the B.I.
The new B.I. was built in 1900, I think,
at the time the dams were about being built.
Such a nice big brick building now.
This was...
Do you want to read it?
Yeah.
That's in Bridge Street.
The railway in.
I guess that was done, I guess,
the trade from when the station was going.
The train came to town.
Would that be one of those tall buildings now
as you go down towards the valley on your right-hand side?
Yes, this is higher up.
This is on the steep pitch opposite the chapel,
congregational chapel, just the opposite.
There were shops higher up.
There was a little sweet shop next up from there.
There was a little sweet shop with a wooden door,
like a stable door.
So this would have been the railway in,
not a temperance in, I take it?
No, that's right. No, I guess not.
But I guess that's...
Well, it's fairly near the station.
The trade came from people coming into town on the train.
Oh, well, we know what that one is, David, don't we?
Walked under that many times.
Yorkey's Bridge, I think.
That's right, yes.
Obviously that must have been prior to 1962.
1962, yes.
When they dismantled the whole thing, presumably.
Did the bridge go then?
Yeah, the bridge went then, I think, pretty soon after that.
I think all this embankment has taken away, really.
I suppose it looks more now like it used to before the bridge.
It's there now, isn't it?
No, that's all gone.
It's sort of, as it is today,
how it used to be before the railway, I guess, pretty much.
And that's the old mill, of course.
That's the old mill here. That was another experience.
Oh, now we used to play there.
Yeah, we did.
A death trap. It's a miracle we survived our childhood, honestly.
It is, isn't it?
We just used to play in it. There was no health and safety.
No, that's right.
Yes, you could walk through, walk down past the mill.
Over the stream at the end, there was a...
There was a little bridge, wasn't there?
There was a little bridge, literally a plank just between two trees, really.
And then that took you onto the far side of the...
...of the end of the park, where they were.
Yeah, into the woodlands there, isn't it?
And where the stream came, the stream there,
came under the railway embankment.
We used to go through the tunnels.
It was quite a regular trip.
We used to end up over that feet usually.
Certainly lots of places to play, weren't there?
Yeah, a great place, yes.
They widened the bridge, didn't they?
The rear of the bridge was widened.
When was that, I wonder?
I think it was sort of the 1920s, late 20s.
Because they made a new bridge, didn't they, in the 20s?
That's right, yes. I don't know where that was from.
This is like the widening scheme I think this was, but the other bridge...
You can see some things there that obviously show they're doing something to the bridge.
Yes, yes.
And that's... This is...
This big tin shed here, this is at the end.
This is station pitch here.
It goes up to the station.
And there's a big concrete mixer.
This is again part of doing this bridge work, I think.
And this tin shed, which is where number one Chameleon is now,
is now at Ryder's in the backyard at Ryder's Hardware.
Have it Hardware, isn't it?
That's right. And it still exists.
And Joe mentioned that, didn't he?
And Ryder's shop was in... opposite this, in Bridgend.
What was it called, Bridgend?
Bridgend Buildings, I think they're the ones near the...
That was where Ryder's shop was.
So Chameleon obviously was built when... in the 30s perhaps?
The 30s probably, yes.
Between the waters, yes.
As was Green Gardens, I think.
Well, I mean, I always remember.
I expect you do.
Oh, look, that shows what they were doing.
That's it, yes.
And there you can see how narrow it was on that photograph.
It sort of doubled the width, I think, didn't it?
Oh, gracious.
So I don't know whether that means it wasn't...
like it wasn't a completely new bridge,
but it was sort of built around the old one, I guess, isn't it?
There was the little old-fashioned hump bridge years and years ago.
Yes, that's right. This looks like the new one, doesn't it?
It's very necessary to widen it.
There's an oil painting by Turner supposedly
that shows the old bridge and people beyond it
people washing clothes in the river.
Yeah, you see them on plates, don't you?
Ornamental plates.
Yes, I've got a copy of it.
I've printed it on a canvas.
That's the beehive there.
Which is...
You certainly altered those. They're very small, aren't they?
Yes.
Yes, this is...
Well, that's where Hughes's shop was, I think, that one there.
This is West End, I think.
It used to be a hotel as well, I think.
That's West End.
That was a temperance hotel, wasn't it?
Yeah, I think it was. I think it might well have been, yeah.
Then you can just see the line in the background there.
They all mark it as a name.
Amazing, isn't it?
I'm proud of that.
Do you remember this?
That's...
It's familiar.
Oh, that's in North Street, isn't it?
Where they did the coal, wasn't it?
Yes, right.
That's Mrs Hedge's haberdashery shop.
I know, I think that's here.
That was Paris Hage's.
That's it. You can just see the corner over there.
So what is that now? The Trouble Box?
Yeah, I think so, yes.
It looks quite wide for that, doesn't it?
It always had an espedaster plant in the window.
It was dead. It was brown.
Really?
It was always there. I was a kid going past there.
It was always there.
It's probably forgotten about, isn't it?
Yes, I know they don't mean walking very often,
but I think I'd have gone beyond Mrs Redd's school.
Well, that goes on forever.
Of course, it's part of that trust, isn't it?
Yeah.
Oh, Morgan's. They were the general stores.
That's right. This was Weather Sparring.
That was Teggett House, isn't it?
I believe so.
It's got the buggy on it here.
Oh, the buggy.
That's right.
There's a fork here.
It's turning it, yes.
So what's this? The castle?
That's the castle, yeah. It used to be the Lion and Castle.
That's right. It did, didn't it?
So there was like a black lion,
a lion and castle, and the lion and the whale was here.
Yes.
The Lion and the Whale, wasn't it?
You can see the buggy coming down here in West Street.
It sort of slabs across the top of it.
So I don't know when this would be.
So this would have been, well, obviously prior to 1922,
wasn't it, when they got rid of that?
That's right. I think this is sort of 1860s, 1870s, I would guess.
You can often tell by the clothes, can't you?
Yes, yes.
It's amazing, isn't it?
Station, I don't know where that is.
It's not the railway station, is it?
See, this place, the market hall went through various stages,
like it's completely sort of stone built there, isn't it?
And you see it later on where it's like whitewashed.
And the upstairs was developed,
because there was a window on the end.
You can find a later picture.
Sheep coming through town.
I well remember that, though, when they used to drive them actually through the town.
Drive them through, yeah, they did.
Imagine that today with all the traffic.
That's the milk bar, do you remember that?
I do, yes, I remember that. That was a favourite haunt, apparently.
Yeah, the Kimley, yeah, it's a good place.
The mother and some of her friends, I know that,
they were sleeping at the milk bar.
Is that where Claire Evans is now, or next door?
It's next door to her. It's a private house now, but...
This was a shoe shop more recently.
I don't know where they're going now.
A shoe shop?
Yeah.
I don't remember it as a shoe shop.
Addison's, Tony Addison ran it, actually.
It was for a few years, I think.
That's a little shoe shop on Bridge Street, on the hill.
Lizzie, they called her.
Nice brass scales.
Was that the one on the corner there, as you went down to Water Lane?
Well, John was stumbling on that earlier,
and that was a wooden shack of a place on the actual corner,
which is missing altogether now.
So the first house there now was where this was, I think.
I certainly remember going into a shop, I think we called it Needers.
It was on the very corner.
Yes, yes.
Addison's, Tony, the one that we ignored there.
Because there was a sweet shop further down.
I can remember Duncan Keith lived there.
Mr. Keith ran it, I guess. A sweet shop.
Yes, I remember that one.
That was on the other side.